But what about this trolley problem?
How do you decide,
if you had to in a vehicle,
what to do with an accident?
There are any number of lose-lose
no win situations that are
setup as canonical examples of
tough things for programmers
to try and solve.
So I have to think about this a lot
because this is a societal question
not just necessarily an
engineering question.
I really believe it's a question that
society has to engage in
and lawmakers have to
decide about how they wish a vehicle
to behave in a no win situation,
and we should be clear.
Some of these problems are
set up as a no win situation.
So I don't have a view on what
the right thing to do is
because that would be not okay.
It's not up to me to
decide how that works.
I really, really
don't have that view.
I do think though that
engineering can offer
many possibilities on how we may
choose to solve the problem.
So, some say that
so much in a situation
where two people walked out
behind two different vans
that were completely obscure,
and suddenly they're in
the way of the vehicle.
Newtonian physics says
unfortunately this is
an awful situation but
there's going to be
a collision of some sorts.
You might say, and I'm not saying
this is what we should do,
heads or tails. You can't choose.
You might say, well actually,
statistics say that
people who were above
a certain height tend to
do better in accidents.
It's horrible whatever.
You might decide that that's
the right thing to do.
I'm not saying what
the right thing to do is,
but you could look
at those statistics,
or you could say maybe it's
just random that we do that,
and sometimes you try to hit
the person who does or you
try to do the least damage.
You might say I just want to
slow down as fast as possible.
That's what I'm going to do
is just going to translate,
which is what you
might say humans do,
you might decide to copy
what humans do and say,
well, this in these situations humans
tend to do these things and you
want the machine to be as better.
But what if you could say actually
I can do better than humans?
That actually a machine can
behave different than a human.
That's one of the reasons we wanted
to do this in the first place.
So, these are very difficult
thorny ethical issues
that the engineers need to
engage in with society,
with lawmakers, with
scholars of the humanities.
But I would say one thing,
I've never ever come
across anyone ever,
who said, I had this time I
was driving down the road,
two people walked in front of me,
and I decided
that person on the left,
I hit them for the following reason.
I've never ever a number of talks
I've given ever had that
reflected back on me.
That does not mean I don't think
it's an important question.
I'm not saying that,
but I am saying we
need to make sure that
the same time we're
engaging with that and also
the 80 percent of
all accidents caused
by inattention could be removed.
So, it's a hard problem.
It's an important problem,
has a place in the narrative,
and it's one that's not just
a pure engineering problem to solve.
It involves insurance,
involves the law,
and it's an engineering endeavor
and it won't be
perfect to start with.
We need to be sure we understand
how we are going to cradle
that in our society if we
want to in the first place.
There's a big question here.